9:00 a.m. in Hong Kong and the Chinese
mainland where markets are shut for the
Golden Week holiday, but we're still
here watching the China show. I'm Ivon
Man with David and Glenn.
>> It's quiet out there, but someone's got
to do it. Our top stories today, stocks
across the region, US futures under
pressure as Washington inches closer to
a US government shutdown.
>> The White House instructing agencies to
prepare contingency plans after
congressional Democrats reject a
Republican stop gap funding package.
Also ahead, China banning UBHB iron
cargos over a pricing dispute drawing
concern from Australia's prime minister.
And I'm Averil Hong at the Milk
Institute, Asia Summit in Singapore
where finance, economics, tech leaders,
they're gathered right here. Stay tuned
for our interviews with Mari Group, Asia
CEO Veretta Lim, and Gore Capital
Partners Goodwin Gore.
[Music]
right? Good morning. Midweek session,
couple of hours to the 15th, government
shutdown. Nothing else changes these
next few hours or so. 15 since 1981. The
read through though is really when you
look at the dollar during and after, it
depends of course how long. We'll get
into that in a moment. But as you can
see, we're going into the sort of
vacuum. And as you can see, US assets,
bonds, and equities are heading into a
sort of vacuum vacuum there. Fourth of
1% to the downside right now, which is,
by the way, a move we don't normally see
for this time of the day. It also might
have to do with the fact that you have
major market mainland, China, Hong Kong,
flip the page, please shut today for a
holiday. Different reason, of course,
for being shut. Uh we're we are looking
at the proxy that traded uh in Singapore
today for 10 to 1% to the upside. So, we
are getting some green on your screens.
Taiwan is coming online. Of course, the
opposite is true. And of course, within
the Aussie markets, we'll get to this in
a moment. The BHP story coming up bottom
of your screens. I think we're down
about one and a half to 2% last we
checked, one and a half%. Thank you so
much. Okay. Uh the story across the
commodity space, of course, gold
continues to hit a new record almost on
a daily basis. 3900 is now extremely
close. As you can see, we're about 10
bucks short, quite literally as I speak
right now, of that level. Ion or of
course part and parcel of the BHP story.
Brent crude an of course copper is also
very much in focus today following this
rally that we've seen going into let's
say the last 48 hours and then we've
seen some consolidation there and of
course Brent on the back of
conversations around maybe supply not
coming online as far as OPIC is
concerned but yes apart from that it's
uh a shutdown story in more ways than
one. US shutdown then of course markets
being shut here for golden week.
>> Yeah. So liquidity could be an issue,
right? Um that's the least we could say
of it. But you know, in terms of this US
shutdown, that certainly is going to be,
you know, a big topic now because it
seems like this time around, you know,
it it seems a little bit more pointed
where the debate goes, right? You know,
markets have usually shrugged this off
for the most part here. It's usually
some sort of 11th hour sort of
resolution, but both sides seem to be
not budging here right now. And it leads
to a lot of discussions about what the
implications for markets is, right? I
think this time around it it obviously
the data goes dark right and if we're
not going to get key data that could
cloud the Fed outlook but also for
markets at a time when you have equity
markets at you know talking around peaks
and valuations at peaks maybe this is a
good excuse to maybe take some profits
as well
>> yeah we were looking for what the next
potential risk would be right and I
think people are sleeping on the fact
that if you don't get some data coming
through out of the US and I think the
latest numbers the PC Lori Logan talked
about how you know the Fed needs to be
careful about cutting interest rates the
risk would actually be pricing out these
Fed cuts, right? That they're not done
deal obviously uh to rate cuts and that
could that be the the risk 6 months of
gains of course for global equities. So
it certainly begs a question of maybe
just a little bit needs uh to just tip
us over the edge here.
>> That's it right any sort of wobble in
asset prices could lead to maybe some
sort of correction in the near term as
some have uh projected as well. So
certainly one thing to watch there as
well but yeah with golden week yeah what
are we going to talk about for eight
days here Dave that certainly is one
thing but China's still making the news
even when it comes to BHP yesterday.
Yeah, I mean there's a lot of news as
far as the BHP story is concerned. I
think when you look at futures, it's
certainly if the market was open today,
the Singapore contracts on the way up.
Certainly there is a momentum still.
>> Great rates were down instantly on the
back of that intraday ones at least.
>> Yeah. The I think the other thing to
point out too was the somewhat of a cash
crunch because of the long weekend of
the long holidays. I think it was
overnight highore which spiked above 5%
indicative I guess of that struggle to
get some cash which is I guess a good
good problem to have. But yes, uh, lots
Hong Kong of course reopens on Thursday.
Mainland markets, as you was pointing
out, of course, goes into the sort of
long hibernation period of a couple of
days and then we talk about things at
the fourth plenum and of course the the
the 15th 5-year plan. I'll at some point
we'll get to those points.
>> Yeah. Let's get to our top story now
when it comes to BHP, right? Because the
Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albani
says that Beijing's ban on new BHP
cargos is quote disappointing. Now,
Albanesea says he wants Australian iron
ore to be exported to China without
hindrance. Let's bring in our China
correspondent, Mimlow on tell us what
led to this Chinese ban and certainly
what the impact is going to be for BHP.
>> Yeah, so there is a Chinese company
called the China Mineral Resources Group
and that is a state-owned company that
was created by Beijing to centrally
manage the purchase of iron ore in order
to have better negotiating power. and
China mineral resources group has as far
as we understand had met with PHP
several times to negotiate prices but
they didn't come to a mutually agreeable
deal and so we understand from sources
that the company has now told producers
in China to halt purchases of cargos
from BHP especially dollar denominated
ones. So what this means is no deals can
be signed even for shipments that had
already left Australia. The only ones
available now are those that have
already arrived in China and are
denominated in UN. So obviously it's a
big blow to Australia which is by far
the largest source of iron ore for
China. And obviously China is a very big
importer and uh right now analysts are
quite hopeful that both sides because of
their important relationship to each
other both sides would have equal
motivation to resolve this soon. So
hopefully it's just a short-term issue.
Well, walk us through what we've seen so
far as far as market impact and likely
what's ahead.
>> Yes. So, obviously the impact is on iron
ore prices, right? And you look at uh
the mining stock for example, BHP I
think opened down about 1.1 and a half%
lower today, but some of its rivals
though like Fordscq as well as uh Rio
Tinto those are fairing better. Uh and a
side effect of that as Ivonne was saying
is freight prices are affected because
iron ore is a very big part of dry bulk
shipping overall. It's by some estimates
about a third of dry box shipping. So if
you see this index of uh dry bulk
shipping prices that has collapsed by
about you know 3% or more today.
>> Okay. Uh moving on we're talking a
little bit more about CL because we're
we're learning also the Chinese
government is getting closer to giving
the company the green light when it
comes to resuming that lithium mine.
Yes. So, uh, CL has submitted reserves
reports to the government. These are
reports that outline the economic
viability of the mines and the Chinese
government according to sources have
grin lit that and this means that the
company is now closer to getting a
renewal of their permit to resume
mining. uh and at at the same time one
of its other uh peers I guess the uh
another company goant tech also has
gotten approval for their mining designs
and ecological restoration of the mine
um and this again would have impact on
lithium prices already we are seeing
lithium prices retreating some of these
uh stocks you can see of Australian
miners down by about 7% or so and some
of uh CL's rivals like SK Innovation
also falling today um And yes, this is
part of, you know, China's scrutiny
over, you know, anti-involution. And
there has been at least eight miners
that were asked to submit those reserve
reports after the government had found
some irregularities when it comes to the
approval and registration process for
mining.
>> Minman, thank you so much. Minman Lo,
our China correspondent there. A kind
public service reminder again that great
Chinese markets are shut uh this
Wednesday. And speaking of the concept
of shuts, a shutdown in a couple of
hours is likely going to happen as far
as the US government is concerned. So
those are some of your top stories
today. Let's get into all of this and
the implications. Hibi Chen is with us,
market analyst, Advantage Markets
joining us this morning. Hibi, good
morning. I really don't want to spend a
lot of time on the US government
shutdown perhaps at this point in time
because we don't really know how long it
will last. But let me just get started
there and we can brush it aside after
this. what is the market implication of
what's going on and is there a direct
correlation now with what the Fed uh is
able to do or not do uh in October he
>> well I think I agree with Evo just
saying that the market seems pretty
common I think on one side I think
because the market seem assume that it
will be just a very brief shutdown and
if you based on the history point of
view that if you looking back into the
for example 2018 and 19 when the market
when the US government shutting down for
35 days the market dip at first but then
recover most of them after that and well
that's exactly what we have seen in the
US market seen the stock still finish
higher the only two market seems to
affect a bit is the US dollar down
about.3% crypto down a little bit but
they all in like within the pretty
reasonable range so showing that the
market still have the resilience they
still pretty confident that it won't
interrupt too much about the Fed's um
rate cutting uh journey ahead but I also
agree that in if we didn't get the data
we didn't get a job report even further.
We didn't get the inflation report. I
think there would definitely become a
real risk and that risk I have to say
that the market yet to price in at this
stage.
>> Yeah. I mean the real risk is if there
if the data goes dark, can the Fed still
cut
>> in October? But we're hearing from Fed
officials too that seem quite you know
complicated by the whole idea of you
know the labor market is weakening but
you know inflation has been above 2% for
four years now. Now, is you know these
Fed rate cuts really a done deal now for
the rest of the year?
>> Well, I think it's not a done deal
definitely for me. I think especially if
you're looking for the PC, I think I
you're right. If you're looking for the
inflation data last week that we got the
PC, it is in line with expectation, but
they're also showing that it's now only
pretty close to a range of the target of
the the target for the Fed. It's 2.8%.
It's pretty high and it's definitely
showing an early sign of a play up. So
in purely from the inflation data point
of view, I don't see the urgency for the
Fed cut at this stage. If not even
saying for two cuts and the job report
you just mentioning, yes, we do see a
bit of a weakening job report for the
past two months, but we yet to get a
crystal ball about whether or not that
contributed by the supply or demand. So
in other words, they probably even yet
to confirm that it's really equivalent
to a slowing down of economy. So that's
the reason that why the Fed have to rush
the car, right? So I think based on
these two reason the inflation or the
job market I just don't think that's
very solid for bad to putting two rate
cars on the table as a done deal at this
stage.
>> So might that lead to a you know people
seem to be quite sanguin over the
possibility
uh well people seem convinced that the
Fed is going to cut anyway. it, you
know, doesn't matter if it's two or
three or when it's going to be and and I
wonder if we price that out. He do you
think we'll get a bigger draw down in
equity markets? Could that be the
catalyst for a correction in your view?
>> Yes, David, I think you're right. The
the market seems pretty optimistic about
the two red cut or even more. I think
that reason is because um out of the
major economy fundamental picture, we
have a very tricky element here is the
political pressure. If you're looking
back to dot plot that released on
September, you can definitely seeing
that happening. So the market seems to
believe that even the economy is doing
all right, yes or no, but we do have the
political pressure to putting these two
records firmly on the table. If that's
not going to happening, I think
definitely the market will feel quite
disappointed. But I do also believe that
because I think if you're looking back
early this year and the market is so
optimistic about these three cards last
year same case but they're getting quite
quickly adapt to it and towards the end
of the year we also can bring the hope
for the ball cuts for 2026. So whether
or not the market were disappointed I
think yes but whether or not they will
pull back quite substantially I think
probably not the case. Yeah, you
mentioned the resilience, right?
September is supposed to be a bad month
for equities and we still defied all
those sort of odds, right? Whether it's
the AI story, whether it's the tariff
risks that were, you know, less than
feared. Out of those two things though,
you know, what can continue to propel
these markets, right? You know, should
we be sleeping at the idea,
>> you know, that these tariffs are are not
going to be a big impact on inflation
and the like?
>> Yes. Uh if you're looking agree I think
that this September is is a big
surprise. I think it's a big surprise
not just for the US market but also for
the APE market that if you're looking
for uh the performance for the for the
September actually it's not the US
market doing the best it's actually the
Hong Kong market up about 7% the Taiwan
and Japanese market up about 6%. So I
think this is definitely showing that of
a tariffs relief element is really at
play here. So the AP market investors
now believing that all this months of
negotiation everything about the tariffs
is now at the back but we know that this
is definitely not the case just last
from last Friday to this week we already
have quite a lot of things happening
from the medical trucks the film
industry and yes a lot of things still
were happening so I don't think it's
time to putting into the show saying
that it's all right now so I think I do
have question about this element here
another element AI I think that's the
Another reason that push the US stock
market that much higher. Um I think this
is the element that potentially will
stay. I think given this seem the
frequency of all this AI industry
updates is getting faster and faster.
Yes, they potentially will keep this
momentum live here. But I think the
appetite for the investors will
definitely bring higher because now the
investor want to see the real result.
It's just no update. We want to see the
real profit and real money.
He just one last question on on AI and
you brought up the fact that it it has
contributed to the what's been happening
in the US in September which was
historically not a very good month is
and just to take us to the Chinese
markets right is you know is has China
now sort of dispelled that that notion
that the US has a monopoly on AI plays
when it comes to the market is it no
longer just a mag seven play is is China
definitely now an alternative for for
investors
Well, I think this question I think the
reason that you looking at everyone
probably have this question is because
Chinese stock market has doing quite
exceptional well in the past months as
well past quarter in a very similar
reason we do seen the technologydriven
but on the other hand I think that China
also quite effectively and quite fastly
trying to building on its chips building
on its AI applications trying to compete
with the US market. I think there's
quite a big potential here. I think
given how big the market is and not just
the Chinese market, I think for the all
the AP pack regions could potentially
benefit from the AI China's chip
development. Um that the market is quite
quite substantial. I think that's
definitely big potential here. But in
terms of whether or not they could
compete in terms of technology level,
application level, I think that still at
a very early stage. But for the China
case, we also have new element which is
probably different from the US. that is
that if the Chinese government trying to
putting more policy in place like what
they do for the EV to supporting the
development here that could be potential
a big bonus for the Chinese investors of
course for the AI development in China.
>> He thank you Hib Chen there market
analyst Advantage Markets of course
we're going to go now to break but look
at live pictures out of DC as of course
we're just about less than 3 hours away
as the government is bet to shut down
there. So certainly this is one to watch
here. Uh we're still hearing that
there's still discussions going on uh
there in DC. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. We're counting down to
this government shutdown in the US. Uh
treasuries on offer as are equities and
as you can see VIX futures are also
pushing to the upside and these are
again moves we don't normally see of
this magnitude this time of the day but
of course we are headed for uh one of a
15th occurrence in the last 45 years or
so. So it happens often but not very
very often here.
>> Yep. And you know, the US government
looks set for that shutdown, as you say,
after Democrats rejected a stop gap
funding package that did not address
their demands. Both sides have less than
three hours now to reach an agreement
before a federal funding deadline. And
President Trump has warned federal
workers could be fired if a shutdown
happens.
>> How many federal workers do you plan to
lay off?
>> Well, we may do a lot. And that's only
because of the Democrats. And as you
know, they wanted to be able to take
care of people that have come into our
country illegally. and no system can
handle that and so we're totally opposed
on that.
>> Let's bring in our senior editor Derek
Wallbank. is with us now and Derek I I
wonder right some most of the time we
shrug this off you know investors um but
it seems like there's bigger
implications this time especially when
President Trump is talking about you
know not furlows but really firings
what's at stake here
>> yeah that's exactly right you know
Donald Trump is trying to raise the
stakes of a uh federal funding lapse
that is due to come into place in less
than 3 hours uh the Senate has gone home
the house wasn't even in today um a pair
of uh dueling bills failed to get 60
votes in the Senate. Uh and that was
enough for the Office of Management and
Budget to put out a notice that told
federal workers to commence their
shutdown plans. So, uh barring some
lastm minute intervention um that we are
we are headed for a uh US federal
government shutdown uh beginning at
midnight. I some might say with that
guidance out that it's uh that it's
already underway. Um but that's kind of
where we're going here. Now, how long is
this going to last? It's really really
hard to say. Um you know, usually these
things go for a couple of days as and
when they happen. The longest one just
more than a month as you can see on the
screen there. Um so, so that's kind of
the range here and that's because
government shutdowns start at a sort of
medium intensity and get worse. Um your
initial things is you get signs saying
that national parks are closed and uh
you get some disruptions to to
government reports that may come out and
it it eventually escalates to where you
know members of the military who are on
active duty don't get paychecks and all
of that becomes politically unviable uh
uh you know not not viable anymore. Um
so that's really what you're sort of
watching for. I noted in one of those
votes today uh that Democrats had three
uh defections uh rather than one that
they had in a prior vote. So you can
already sort of see a little bit of that
um you know kind of nervousness ticking
in. But it remains unclear who the
American voting public, particularly
independent voters, a year off from the
congressional midterms, are going to
actually find fault with. We've actually
seen scenarios in past times where the
the shutdown party uh looks like it lost
the shutdown fight only to win the
midterms the next year. It has happened
before,
>> Derek. It's in a year where Donald Trump
has gotten his way most of the time.
This is of course one of those rare
instances where the Democrat I mean
Chuck Schumer has used this rare window
to really push back. Is do you see a
current path out of this?
>> Yeah, I see two offramps for this David
and and to be really really crude here
they are. Option one is that Democrats
and Republicans uh come to some accord
about healthc care spending money um you
know uh subsidies for for those on
Obamacare exchanges. Those premiums are
due uh to spike and letters to people
who are who are getting their health
care that way uh should be going out
even later into October. So that's going
to happen really quickly. So that's a
possible off-ramp there. Maybe you get a
short-term thing uh you know for a
couple of days, maybe a week or two
weeks or something to give those
negotiations a bit of time. Option two
is somebody folds
>> and some and you just eat whatever the
political consequences are of of all of
that. And and honestly, both of those
ways are ways that shutdowns have ended
before. Sometimes someone just gets pie
on their face politically and just eats
it.
>> Derek, thank you, Derek. wealth, a
senior editor joining us out of San
Francisco. We got plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. US futures, as you
can see, are coming under some pressure
as we head into the last few hours. It
looks like we will get that shutdown. It
doesn't seem to be any offramp the next
few hours or so. At the very least,
we'll talk about this and the
implications of course and really how
long that lasts and that tends to have
an effect really on the dollar uh among
other things. As Asia Pacific, we're
down about a quarter 1% a reminder that
we don't have trading across greater
China today on the holiday.
>> I think ING said the Japanese yen could
be the more preferable sort of trade
here when it comes to any sort of
shutdown risk there. Euro, you know,
judging by prior shutdowns is a good one
to trade as well. So certainly those on
watch here today. This is
[Music]
Right. Welcome back. So, we don't have
trading across Hong Kong and greater
China today. So, it's a holiday. It's
time for some sun, maybe a bit of fun,
maybe a bit of rest. Uh maybe study for
a test, a glass or two of reds. Um
>> why not?
>> A bit more time in bed. Um yeah, um
>> it's our excuse, Dave.
>> Our excuse
>> this show.
>> Oh, 100%. Like we are married to our
work. That's just Ivon and I buying a
bit of time before we look at the
Philippines, which opens up in a couple
of seconds. US government shutdown, of
course. Gold continues to be in play,
3,900 as far as that's concerned. We'll
get to the mining story in a moment here
with the ASX and of course BHP down.
Rio, Fordsky on the way up. Right on
time, the Philippines opening up. The
reason we're looking at that 7 days of
decline going into this morning. Do we
get an eighth day? That is already the
longest losing streak this year so far.
Initial weakness, not a lot as far as
the opening goes. There's a well, a
couple of things. There's a corruption
scandal on flood control projects. Uh
there was a massive earthquake overnight
in the central part of the country and I
believe and I think I think I saw the
news reports of a volcano eruption as
well. So
>> yeah,
>> lots to contend with there. Uh year to
date it's now the worst performing
benchmark in the Asia-Pacific. Uh we're
down 9% and of course as far as bonds go
I think it's the worst performing in
September. the currency was also the
worst performing uh as far as Asia FX
was concerned uh for the month of
September.
>> I mean it's a stark contrast, right? It
sticks out like a sore thumb when you're
talking about the rest of the emerging
markets complex, you know, rallying for
a ninth straight month, the longest
winning streak we've seen since 2004 and
why we're seeing these inflow is really
about what we've seen in the weaker
dollar environment. You have interest
rate cuts that are being priced in from
the Fed. So yeah, I definitely see the
contrast there. And it does open up the
Fed opens up further cuts and I think
that's something that's emerged recently
from a lot of our guests. The Fed has
started to cut then it does open up the
runway even further for
>> RBI too today. Close call could be.
>> Yes. Yes. That seems to be quite split.
Uh 15 against 25 I think. So we'll see.
That's in a couple of hours from now. Uh
in the meantime though for more really a
deeper look at opportunities with the
Asia Pacific with that backdrop that
Ivon and I just outlined there for you.
Let's get it back now to the Milkan
Institute Asia Summit in Singapore and
April our colleague is there with us
with her guest. April.
>> Yeah. My next guest is Verina Lim Asia
CEO of Mquari Group and guys really
thank you for the setup because you pick
up on some of the key points that I
wanted to address with Verina. Really
good to see you.
>> Thank you bro. I mean they were just
talking about you know India and perhaps
also that is along with some of the
markets in the Asia region that you seem
to be more constructive or positive on
but how do you view that along with
China at the moment?
>> Okay. Well, look, I would probably want
to start with the fact that for McCory,
we've been investing and operating in
Asia for more than 30 years now. So,
we're very familiar with the overall
landscape. um our job is to create a
diversified portfolio. So obviously we
think there are great opportunities
overall particularly given the positive
demographics in this region. If you look
at some of the economies in Asia they're
one of the fastest growing economies in
the world. Um so some of the statistics
you'll be very familiar with by 2030 2/3
of the middle income population globally
will come from this region. So when we
look at each of the markets Asia is not
very homogeneous. we have to really look
at each country um based on the maturity
of their political regulatory landscape.
You mentioned India, we're also very
familiar with markets like Southeast
Asia. So within Southeast Asia, we've
invested in digital assets, energy
assets, transportation assets um in
places like Philippines, Indonesia as
well. And you know, we've also exposed
ourselves to more developed markets like
Japan, Singapore, um as well as Korea.
And to your question about China, we've
been committed to China for a very long
period of time now. We've been present
in that market for more than 20 years.
Uh we've got quite a lot of existing
portfolio companies in data centers, in
logistics, as well as water
infrastructure investments today. And so
we're very focused on driving value and
growing those existing portfolios.
>> Are you looking to deploy even more
capital in China? Look as mentioned you
know our job is to really find the best
risk adjusted return opportunities in
the current environment. So um I think
the key thing for us is we understand
and appreciate that emerging markets
change rapidly. Um but for us we've got
people on the ground that local
capability and experience such that if
there is a great opportunity to pursue
then we'll be ready to go.
>> Okay. you site Indonesia and the
Philippines. Um, and these are markets
where you've had a long sort of history
in, but they've been quite tricky to
play this year as well. Like how
convicted are you on those markets?
>> Yeah, I mean, look, this is not an
overnight journey that we've been on. I
think we've been really um first movers
into markets like Philippines as well as
Indonesia. Um so if I take Philippines
to begin with, we started investing in
that market um since 2012.
Um and it took us actually 12 months, a
whole 12 months before we even deployed
any capital in that market. Um but you
know, we saw and had quite a lot of
conviction again on the macro dynamics.
um the fact that we could leverage not
only our regional capabilities but our
global experience in infrastructure to
help the Philippine government to deploy
their infrastructure program at that
time and we've been quite successful
there. We've deployed more than $2.5
billion of capital in that period in
assets like the largest geothermal
portfolio in the Philippines um in we
participate in their first PPP with the
light rail um as well as a variety of
renewable assets. to your question about
Indonesia. Um yes, we've all seen the
headlines um and uh a lot of noise
around Indonesia um in recent times. Um
and look, as I mentioned, our job is to
really understand the environment that
we're playing in Indonesia. It took us
longer than Philippines to enter. It
took us more than um 15 years, I would
say. We obviously monitored that market
um closely because of the positive
demographics. uh but it was only when
the political and the regulatory
framework made sense to us it was a lot
more stabilized uh we were very
confident with some of the partnerships
that we were developing.
>> So you remain confident on the stability
in government policy coming out of both
of these markets.
>> I think on a you know we always look at
these things on a more medium to
long-term basis. We don't really try and
um focus too much on the short-term
volatilities and short-term shocks. If
you think about infrastructure, we look
at these on a very long-term horizon.
So, uh we're still very optimistic that
things will get better there.
>> Talk to us about the gap in
infrastructure investing in Asia that
we've talked about like almost to death,
right? What have you been seeing in this
year alone and how do you accelerate
capital flows towards that?
>> Yeah, I mean, you're absolutely right.
We've been talking about how that
funding gap h continues to widen and how
do we actually close that gap? Look,
I've been in Asia for almost two decades
now. Personally, um, you know, when I
first moved to Singapore, there wasn't
as much interest in investing in
infrastructure or that capital flow
here. But if I look at the market today,
there are quite a lot of players who've
now entered into this market. And what's
interesting right now, given the current
macro situation, we're seeing a lot of
investors interested in diversifying
away from markets like the US and coming
into Asia. I think overall that's good,
right? Because that just helps us reduce
or you know uh reduce that funding gap
that you know continues to widen because
of the constant growth that you're
seeing in Asia.
>> What about fundraising for your
infrastructure fund? At last count, I
think the goal was $5 billion. Correct
me if I'm wrong. How's progress on that
been? We're always trying to raise
capital to, you know, provide um these
solutions and access to these pri
proprietary opportunities to investors.
Fundraising environment has uh somewhat
been up and down in recent years, but uh
you know, we're making good progress.
>> Okay. talk to us as well about some of
the other opportunities in
infrastructure investing because I know
you're also a big player in markets such
as South Korea where AI the energy
transition are key themes but it also
looks like it's becoming a competitive
landscape. How does that affect what
you're targeting and your exit
strategies?
>> Yeah. No, that's a very good question.
So look um I think our core principle
when it comes to our investment strategy
is to go into things early. So we as
mentioned before we've been first movers
in all of these markets. When we've gone
into sectors early built conviction
around that asset class think about
really how we're going to create value
during our ownership. It's been pretty
great experience for us. And then then
the obvious step is how do you actually
exit and maximize on the way out to the
next logical buyer. The competition that
you talked about and the capital flow
that you talked about I think what we're
seeing is that the mix and depth of
universe of buyers is much greater than
what it was even 5 6 years ago. So
that's really helping us run these
competitive processes on divestments and
really making sure we're hitting that
intrinsic value on the way out for some
of these assets.
>> You talk about value. There's been
bubble talk for data centers. I mean,
how would you weigh out the risks?
>> Uh, well, I'm sure you're aware. We did
have a very large um hypers scale
portfolio in the region called Air Trunk
um not long ago. We uh we divested that
asset to uh to another uh investor late
last year. Uh again, I think you know,
we're highly convicted on on the sector.
Um you know, data centers isn't the only
um asset class within the digital
infrastructure space. You've got things
like communication towers as well as
fiber businesses that we continue to uh
review and pursue. I think for us, you
know, the reason why we uh divested that
investment was because again to the
point about going in early,
>> maximizing on our valuation creation
plan and then thinking about what is
that next phase for that asset created
that opportunity to exit. But overall, I
think you know we we we have strong
conviction in the sector. We haven't
really been talking enough about
developed markets in Asia
in Japan where corporate governance has
reinvigorated investor appetite for that
market. What are you seeing in terms of
the opportunities there particularly for
private markets?
>> Yeah, I mean the first thing we did was
really strengthen our teams on the
grounds there. I think we still believe
that is critical to create these
proprietary opportunities. So we've got
a pretty strong large team now on the
grounds in Japan. Um the corporate
mindset has definitely shifted to your
point about these policy changes in
recent periods. They're very focused on
maximizing efficiency, value and
productivity um in that country. So, you
know, that's really led us to our first
digital investment opportunity late last
year where McCori um uh supported
Rakutan Mobile in its growth journey and
that's been a good investment to date
and I think that will open doors for us
further in Japan.
>> Aside from growth, I have to ask you
because McQuary is also um you know
facing regulatory scrutiny, the
shareholder revolt, there have been
internal changes. How are you assessing
that? What are your views on that? Look,
I think um obviously assessing risk is
part of what we all do. Um so it's
important that that's embedded in what
we always do. Um things like regulatory,
political risk, government risk is
something that's not new for our teams,
particularly here in Asia because if you
think about how rapidly Asia has been
evolving and how consistent that change
has been, I think dealing with some of
those risks is something that we're very
familiar with. part and parcel
>> absolutely
>> of the role I guess. Yes.
>> Fina, great to chat. Thank you so much.
Verina Lim is Asia CEO of McQuary Group.
Guys,
>> thank you.
>> Great stuff, April. Thank you. And of
course, our thanks to Vera Limb there.
Well, more from Milin in the next hour
when we speak with G Capital partners
about the investment opportunities
they're seeing in this region. Goodwin
Gaul joins us pretty soon.
>> And our subscribers can turn to your
terminal for more on this. TI VGO is the
function you run for the latest updates
commentary analysis specifically on this
ongoing
event day one at the Milkin Institute
Asia summit April was just there of
course we'll have more coverage on the
ground bit later on in this show plenty
more ahead
[Music]
welcome back. You're watching the China
show. Let's have a closer look at FX
now. So, this looming government
shutdown in America is a clear risk for
the dollar, adding to challenges that
have already kept it under pressure this
year. for more on what's going on here.
David Fidy joins us out of Singapore to
just uh help us understand really just
the what so what happens with the dollar
during shutdowns and I'm guessing it's
not as straightforward as that those two
concepts David.
>> Yeah, it really depends on how long is
the shutdown. If you have to think about
it, any shutdown is should be negative
for the dollar because obviously it will
impact US output and growth. So the
longer that goes on, the bigger the
impact and therefore you think the
bigger the impact on the dollar and
that's what we've seen historically. Um
if you go back to 20 late 2018 into 2019
there was a 35day shutdown. Um and that
basically saw about a 2% uh decline in
the dollar. So really it's not like a
100% correlation but you'd have to think
this makes sense is the longer the
shutdown the bigger the economic impact
and hence the bigger drag on the dollar
as it factors in that economic impact.
So it's more of a grind than the
obviously as we know in these processes
everything can change very very quickly.
I mean what has been interesting is with
the equity markets being actually near
the record highs if you're a politician
you could go well there's no worry yet
um and therefore maybe we'll drag on
these um discussions if equity markets
will start selling off that obviously I
think politicians react very quickly so
ironically because equity markets are
high it'll be interesting to see does
that tell politicians actually yeah we
can drag these on a bit longer than we
want to if that is the case then history
does say that that will gradually will
weigh on the dollar and push it lower.
>> Okay. How what's the best way to trade
it? Is it is it dollar yen? Is it euro?
>> You know, some people have even said
gold is a good hedge. You know, what do
you think is the best way to kind of
hedge all this?
>> I I think at the moment, if you look at
gold, gold is certainly a very popular
way. You know, traders say trend is your
friend and gold is defining
trade overnight in Asia. you saw it sell
off towards the end of the day then it
rallied back. So at the moment it is
certainly as a safe haven asset that's
certainly being perceived as a very
popular one. Uh then if you were looking
in the currency space you'd logically go
with just your safe havens which is the
yen and the Swiss frank. Um having said
that you look at implied volatility say
dollar yen you know even for one week
implied volatility it's indicating about
75% chance that dollar yen trades a toy
two point either way of where we are
right now. So basically let's say in a
145 to 150 handle. So it is some
movement but the market's going you know
it's not panicking yet. Now again things
can change but certainly the moment the
market's sort of going look we've been
here before we know it's drag on they
history says they always resolve at some
point so at the moment while you could
say safe haven play markets not from
implied volatility perspective not that
worried that there'll be a big movements
in the currency markets again that can
change but for the moment the markets
are taking it relatively in the stride
but if you were to trade it for safe
haven Swiss Frank or yen from the
currency perspective would be two of the
more favorite options.
>> David, just just a question. You
mentioned the Swiss Frank, which now I'm
going to refer to the the data and the
survey out of BIS here talking about how
I think that for the Frank for one, the
Frank really uh saw one or two levels up
as far as settlement was concerned. That
takes us into the yuan and the pound. Uh
very close now to in terms of overtaking
the the British currency. David, what do
we know about that?
Yeah, certainly um the yuan in terms of
I think just over 8% of total trades
have involved the yuan according to the
BIS data. Pounds down from about 12 down
to 10. I mean the dollar still dominates
at around 90%. But you are seeing this
gradual shift towards yan getting more
and more interest be more used more and
more. Uh a key factor for it to be used
more really would be the capital account
needs to be opened up. I think that's a
key factor most people would agree. But
if you look back at go back to June this
year, the PBOC governor did say lay out
an idea of look maybe not just you maybe
a few other countries obviously the
being the main one nearest competitor to
those will compete against the dollar
moving forward and gain more traction
and it'll be interesting to see how that
does play out. Obviously, nothing's
going to happen over a year, but in say
let's say 10 years down the line, China
does have an a goal of its currency
being used more as a reserve status and
not necessary that will supplant the
dollar in that time, but could certainly
make inroads the same for the euro and
same certainly the yen as well. So, it's
going to be interesting and you go back
to think what Scott Bessant said earlier
this year. What's the strong dollar from
dollar's perspective? It's really about
the dollar being the reserve currency.
That's what it's going about. So, as
long as the dollars involved in these
transactions, that won't be a problem.
If that starts to change, uh Scott Bess
may have some more words, should we say.
>> All right, David, thank you. Dinity
there. Our FX strategist joining us out
of Singapore. Uh we're just getting some
breaking news crossing the Bloomberg
here right now on when it comes to
Taiwan. So it seems like the government
has confirmed some earlier reports uh
saying that trade talks with the US have
made some progress and it rejects the
US's request to make half of its chips
locally uh in the US. So you know this
is on the back of that story that we
brought to you yesterday. Uh, also CNA,
the local media there has been talking
about and quoting the vice premere
Chungi Chun saying that the negotiating
team never promised to help the US
locally produce half the chips it needs,
nor would it agree to such a request.
And they're saying that both sides are
going to continue to cooperate here. And
they're expecting to have more thorough
discussions uh when it comes to section
232. Seems like the market, you know,
brushing it off, right? We're still
talking about three and a half% gains
for TSMC here today.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, just more on that breaking
news that we just brought to you today.
We're starting to see a little bit of
these kind of red lines being put on
when it comes to Taiwanese side of
things when it comes to these trade
talks with the US. So they have rejected
the US request to make half of its chips
locally. Uh but they did say that when
it came to trade talks, the US have made
some progress. Perhaps that is why we're
still seeing TSMC punching pretty punchy
gains here today.
>> Yeah. Uh the vice premier is returning
to Taiwan. In fact, today, Wednesday, um
coming off to the point was just making
their a fifth round of negotiations in
uh in DC. Uh three and a half% and
Taiwanese markets are doing very well.
>> Yeah. And it seems like the premier also
said that the trade talks have entered
the quote crucial closing stages, right?
So they could be nearing a deal uh with
the Trump administration pretty soon. Um
but yeah, the discussions have been
aimed at really lowering that 20% tariff
level for Taiwan. Yeah. Uh for the
island as well. So there you go. Other
news that we're tracking out of China
this morning, China's residential home
sales steadied in September with the
value of new home sales growing just
0.4%
yearonear. And that's according to
Bloomberg calculations. The figures mark
a substantial improvement compared to
the 17.6% decline in August. Potential
stabilization comes nearly 3 years after
Beijing began supporting the sector,
though without largescale stimulus. Nike
has reported quarterly sales and profit
that beat expectations, but its sales in
the greater China region remain weak
with the company facing what it calls
structural challenges there. The CEO,
Elliot Hill, says Nike is focused on
restructuring its offerings to focus on
specific sports in China.
>> We're looking at uh the mining space
today. One is the BHP story. We'll get
to lithium in a moment, but BHP and some
of its peers going the opposite way
obviously on the back of fairly negative
news on BHP itself. Analysts though
think that they will be able to find a
solution here when it comes to uh
China's big buyer and of course the
company uh itself. Um Australia of
course has now basically come out and
expressed its disappointment on those
developments uh on lithium and also this
uh concerns China as well with CL
getting a minor approval there. Lithium
stocks adding to the woes and the
pressure we're seeing in the Aussie
markets. Very very quickly we'll end
things with a look at the Philippines 25
minutes of the cash market session there
and we are currently looking on the main
benchmark albeit ever so slightly the
longest losing streak now in 2025. We're
on 7 days. We were on 7 days. This would
make an eighth day. More on this in a
moment. Plus, of course, other things
moving the markets. We'll look at gold
in a closer look at golds coming through
in the next hour.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China Show. Yes,
mainland markets in Hong Kong are shut,
but we're still calling it the China
show, right? Because, you know, branding
for branding purposes. Lots to talk
about still, right? The BHP story
certainly has a channel angle to it. The
whole gold story as well. We talk about
how that blockbuster Zing Gold IPO went
yesterday as well. So, Asia Pacific
though, we're starting off the new
quarter slightly on the back foot here
today. We're down about a third of 1%. I
think Japan sort of dragging things uh
down a little bit lower here this
morning, Dave. But yeah, it's pretty
quiet out there of course as we countd
down to this looming government shutdown
in the US.
>> Yeah, you know, the lack of liquidity
and some of the markets being shut might
be adding to the fact that you are
getting some um larger than usual price
moves in uh US assets notwithstanding of
course there is a big story that we're
approaching there in terms of the
shutdown in uh exactly two hours from
now as I speak. Uh the other point Ivon
was just making there a third of 1% to
the downside is also down to you have
this China angle to the mining story on
the BHP angle and also in lithium. Those
are two points to take note of uh on the
Japanese story. Let's flip the page
please as we enter the last 30 minutes
of trade here. We'll get into the Tankan
survey in a moment for you. But when you
look at a flatter curve, you look at
declines across the main benchmarks
there following what's what's really
been it was a terrific month and quarter
for uh risk assets right now. A flatter
curve, a lower yield curve might mean
you need some money being taken off the
table as far as the banks go. That's
exactly what we're seeing today.
Japanese banks for the page, please have
a look at that. And yeah, the topics
banks index. There we go. substantial
declines we are seeing across Japanese
financials as we rethink uh rate hike
the path of rate hikes for the BOJ might
also be the risk that we need to watch
for the Fed the rate cutting path for
the Fed and us to need to repric that
risk as it doesn't seem
um well we're we're kind of hoping
if you are in the camp that thinks the
Fed should not be cutting interest rates
yet might the absence of data support
your view or if the data comes out,
might it actually support your view that
they should not be cutting rates?
>> At least it clouds the outlook, right?
Um of an already very complicating
picture for the Fed, right, when you
have uh in lingering inflation pressures
and a a labor market that continues to
see deterioration. So that certainly is
one thing to watch if once we get into
the kind of a the data going dark that
could be at stake for a lot of the
market implications that's concerned,
right? Let's talk a little bit more
about what's going on in DC, right? The
US government looks shut for that
shutdown after Democrats rejected a stop
gap funding package that did not address
their demands. Both sides have less than
an hour now to reach or two hours now to
reach an agreement before a federal
funding deadline. Let's bring in uh here
President Trump. He's been talking about
it and really warning that federal
workers could be fired if a shutdown
happens.
>> How many federal workers do you plan to
lay off?
>> Well, we may do a lot and that's only
because of the Democrats. And as you
know, they wanted to be able to take
care of people that have come into our
country illegally. And no system can
handle that. And so we're totally
opposed on that.
>> Let's bring in our senior editor, Derek
Wallbank. He's been tracking all this,
staying up late over there in San
Francisco. Derek, uh, we have about, you
know, less than two hours away. Can
anything happen in the next two hours to
change the outcome?
>> Theoretically, yes. Practically,
probably not. Um the shutdown looks for
all the world like it's going to go
happen. Democrats and President Donald
Trump remain very very far apart. And it
is so far apart in fact that the White
House's Office of Management and Budget
which uh sort of controls the uh
executive branch staffing has already
gone ahead and told agency leaders to
start their shutdown their shutdown
plans. So, we are very much on the road
to a government shutdown of
indeterminate length right now. Um, you
know, we're not quite sure how long this
is going to go. Both sides are kind of
dug in right now on their positions. Uh,
Democrats are trying to get some healthc
care money out of this. They're also
trying to use this as an opportunity to
highlight uh some difficulties that
they've had with Republicans and
spending. And Trump, meanwhile, as you
mentioned quite correctly, is trying to
raise the stakes for Democrats,
threatening to fire federal workers
rather than just simply furlow them and
bring them back. That would be a major
escalation
uh in in this sort of thing. We'll see
if that actually winds up coming to
pass. But both sides right now digging
in uh as we start uh with the with with
this shutdown, which now, you know, is
just less than two hours away from
kicking off.
Derek, I can't help but think that, you
know, we're going into this and around
this time next year, we have the
midterms coming through. Um, how are
politicians looking at next year in in
terms of, you know, informing them what
they need to do now in terms of
increasing their chances of of winning
in 2026?
David, I think the number one thing that
they're looking at right now is who's
going to get blamed for this and what
sort of effect does that have? Um, you
know, typically in past government
shutdowns, uh, the party that initiated
the government shutdown, uh, by seeking
unrelated policy demands. In those
cases, it was Republicans got blamed for
the shutdown and came out looking worse.
That having been said, um, these do
sometimes have the effect of energizing
your base. So even if you look like you
lost the government shutdown, there are
examples of of the party that lost the
government shutdown, so to speak, uh
going out and winning in the midterms uh
in part because maybe they energized
their base a little bit and showed that
there was uh some fight there. So it is
a little bit of a complicated thing, but
I think that's one of the things that
we're looking at. The other thing that
I'm looking at, frankly, is what's the
exit path here? I see two options right
now. The two most likely options, one is
that Republicans and Democrats agree to
some talks on this healthcare funding
that I mentioned uh and that provides
enough trust to get to an offramp and
some uh extension of funding for a
certain amount of time. or one side gets
tired of fighting and decides to just
throw in the towel and quit and move on
to try and fight another day and deal
with all of the political backlash that
comes with that. That's really the two
most likely uh scenarios on the table
right now. And remember, government
shutdowns start out at about a medium
level of severity and get worse over
time, both actually and politically. Lot
of things to keep a watch out for here.
>> Derek, fantastic. Thank you so much. Uh
Derek Wallbank there. Uh staying up and
as we await of course a shutdown in less
than two hours from now. Look at the
market implication of all of this and we
are already seeing US futures on offer
quite a bit going into the session
today. Mark Cranfield is with us out of
Singapore. Mark the square the circle
for us. It's a market non-event but you
are getting some pressure across US
assets. Tell us why.
Yeah, we we're just blaming Derek for
everything. If it's a long shutdown,
it's Derek's fault. So that's
But seriously, the the longer the longer
the shutdown goes on, the worse it's
going to be for the US dollar. I mean,
the clearest from a macro trader point
of view, the clearest expression they
will have about an an American shutdown
would be that they would be shorting the
US dollar. So you could expect that to
go quite a bit further because the
implications obviously the longer it
takes the worse it's going to be for the
US economy. That means there'd be more
pressure on the Federal Reserve to lower
interest rates. Treasury yields will
decline. The yield curve will probably
flatten. All of that would feed into the
currency which will probably
underperform against major currencies
and against the rest of the world as
well. So for the stock market, it's a
bit more nuanced because we are going to
be coming shortly into the earnings
season and a lot of people will be
assuming that with all the AI hype and
the the fact that people like Nvidia
continue to exceed expectations, they'll
probably be thinking it's going to be a
decent earning season overall for the US
market. So equities will be more choppy,
but they can probably survive. And but
if we get to something like a 35day
shutdown similar to the one we had in
Trump's first term, then equities will
probably start to crumble on the back of
that. So so much depends on how long it
takes. But the probably consistent theme
is that the US dollar softens and gold
probably continues to get the same kind
of bid that we've been seeing recently
as well.
>> Yeah, it continues to be um the story
that keeps on giving gold. Mark, um
let's brush that aside. Let's talk a
little bit more about other things.
things. I mean, what's on top of mind? I
know you're writing a little bit more
about that JGB curve that continues to
flatten.
>> Well, you can see it's hurting the the
banking sector today as you you were
talking about earlier. So, it's a double
whammy really here. So, the
>> the fact that we're we're getting closer
to a Bank of Japan interest rate hike,
but they've compounded the issue for the
banking sector by overnight. They
announced the Bank of Japan will be
reducing purchases of bonds in the
shorter end of the curve but maintaining
purchases at the very long end of the
curve. Now the implication for that is
that you get flattening which is not
good for the bank earnings point of view
especially as they will be reducing
purchases the most in the sort of the
one to 10year sector and that's really
not very good from the from the curve
point of view. So not only is the the
curve would the curve would have been
flattening anyway because of the BOJ
hike which is now very likely thanks to
the tenan report but the fact that BOJ
is going to amp up the the reasons for
that as well that's not very good for
the financial sector and you've got the
largest bank in Japan is going about to
reported to be putting a pretty big
stake into an Indian finance company.
Now investors are always a little bit
wary when they hear about Japanese firms
going overseas particularly into markets
they're not so sure about. So again
that's a negative for the banking sector
as well. All of that is feeding into the
topics today which is underperforming.
Um so there's plenty of reasons to be a
bit defensive on Japanese stocks today.
>> Mark thank you. Mark Granfield there are
live strategist joining us from
Singapore. And coming up, we're going to
be staying in Singapore and live at the
12th Milk and Institute Asia Summit. Our
very own Haz has more on the ground.
What's in store today? Haz.
>> Hey, Ivon. Did someone say it is an
unpredictable world? Well, we heard from
the defense minister of Singapore this
morning saying that brace brace that
unpredictability is going to get even
worse. So the policy makers here at the
Milkin Institute along with uh investors
CEOs of companies uh well we'll getting
their thoughts on how they're navigating
this evolving macro environment. Where
are they deploying capital well coming
up is a host of guests uh on your show
on mine later on as well the likes of
Yep Kim who runs uh the pension fund
TMRS will get his thoughts on the
shutdown in the US. We're also getting
perspective from Goodwin God. So this is
a real estate uh private equity fund
management. What's he doing with his
money? He has investments in the US as
well as the rest of Asia including in
China along with of course the sovereign
wealth fund of Indonesia. They've been
talking about this Patriot Bonds
issuance. What's happening with that?
Plenty more ahead. Keep it here with us.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right. Uh, as we were talking about
in the break, there you go. Goal hitting
on the record. Uh, as of course we're
just about, well, less than two hours
away from this US government shutdown.
So there it seems like there's plenty of
reasons to continue this story here. The
government shutdown is just one factor,
right? You talk about central bank
buying, you talk about weaker dollar,
all these sort of factors continue to
see gold on a record run, Dave.
>> Yeah. In fact, let's bring in Si Girls,
of course, out of Oz with us, our Asia
Mountain Mining reporter to really
underscore how busy she's been on the
back of this coverage on gold and we'll
talk about because it's also been a big
week as far as listings go with Zing
Gold this week, which we'll get to in a
moment. But yeah, what are you hearing
from from the markets these days on US
shutdown and where gold prices are?
Yeah, David, look, you're right. I I
can't remember a time when I've been uh
busier on this beat covering gold and
you know, I think um you know, we heard
David Fidity talking earlier about the
impacts of uh potential US shutdown on
the dollar in terms of pressuring the
dollar and obviously a weaker dollar is
uh positive for gold because it's priced
in US dollars. So uh I think it's it's
hard to come by any sort of bearish
headwind for gold at the moment. You
know these things it seems like every
development um at the top of the news
cycle every day is something that is
bullish for gold right like now right
now it's this potential US shutdown but
you know in the background we've got
concerns about uh the Fed's
independence. We've got central bank
buying. And if you look at, you know,
investors and what what they're doing
with gold, we're seeing huge inflows
into gold back ETFs. September was uh
the biggest month of inflows that we've
seen in more than 3 years. And you know,
even on the the small pullbacks, we had
a small pullback yesterday after it hit
a record in the Asia hours in the
morning and it pulled back later on in
the day just to to rally even higher
later in the day. So, you know, you're
seeing, you know, on the small
pullbacks, you're seeing investors jump
in uh to to take to take um an
opportunity there. Uh and the gold price
just rallies higher. It's it's hard to
see gold uh losing steam at this point
in time.
>> Yeah. And you know, digging gold is case
in point uh a of key beneficiary of it,
right? I mean, what an entrance
yesterday with that 60% plus gain uh uh
here in Hong Kong and it really has
really brought in terms of share sales
of some of these gold miners to a record
high and it you know it's a great story
you wrote about how it's really widened
the whole investable universe for a lot
of investors out there. Why are
investors suddenly interested in gold
miners again?
>> Yeah, I mean it's a great time to be a
gold miner, isn't it? Look, I I think
predominantly this interest in gold
miners is really the fact that, you
know, almost nothing's hotter than gold
at the moment. And if you buy the
miners, of course, it's sort of a
leveraged bet on the gold price. Plus,
holding the miners gives you a little
bit of return, whereas gold as a hard
asset doesn't yield anything. So, I
think, you know, there has been a real
shift uh in terms of investors uh or the
appeal for investors and gold miners. uh
whereas before they haven't had a great
history. They, you know, really for
years haven't been able to get their
costs under control. But right now the
gold price is going up much much faster
than costs are. So you're act they're
actually making they're printing money
at the moment. And you know, we think of
gold, you know, sort of as a financial
asset, as a currency, but it's also a
commodity. And we've got strong demand
very clearly on the one side, but
supply, you know, isn't really matching,
you know, the uh responding to this
increase in demand. We've got declining
reserves. Deposits are harder to find
and more expensive to develop. So, you
know, it makes sense right now to to
look at the gold miners as, you know,
the the companies that dig this stuff up
out of the ground and see a really
really uh a great opportunity in the
miners.
Well, there's certainly I can't remember
I can't think of the last golden window
like we've had uh no well pun intended I
guess uh that we we're currently looking
at right now. So what are these miners
going to do with the extra capital and
how long do you think this window of
interest will last where they can raise
the capital and then deploy that
capital?
>> Yeah, I mean it's a good question,
right? because I I I can't really
remember at least in my time of covering
covering gold, you know, a time when,
you know, miners have had these kinds of
options available to them given that
they have so much extra capital and
they've got healthy balance sheets at
the moment. What we have been seeing
particularly in Australia is um a lot of
that money is going back to shareholders
via dividends or buybacks uh which has
been quite rare in the industry. So
obviously investors quite like that
prospect. Um, but I think ultimately
investors and shareholders want to see
companies grow, right? You want to see
the the production grow when prices are
at these levels. So, you're going to be
looking for companies that um can, you
know, expand organically through their
own existing projects, brownfields
projects. Um, but also we're likely to
see a little bit of M&A. You know,
obviously it's a bit of a touchy subject
for investors cuz uh they have uh you
know, the miners have had a history of
overspending in the past, so they don't
want to see silly spending at this
point. But um I think you know
ultimately to to answer the the sort of
second part of your question, David,
investors are still underinvested here.
So I think there's a lot of room for
this to grow.
>> Fantastic. Thank you so much. Yeah, I
mean lots more to talk about. I'm
guessing this is won't be the last time
we'll be speaking with you in the near
future. Sibla and in Oz for us on the
latest on the gold story and this golden
window of opportunity. Plenty more
ahead. This is Moon.
[Music]
You said it.
>> Right. Welcome back. uh dollar yen as
you can see roundabouts and we are about
to enter the stronger side of the cutoff
today. Couple of things in Japan of
course you had this conversations around
the yield curve we'll get to that later.
Tankan survey was also out within that
of course the data set large
manufacturers guidance on inflation 2.2%
uh in the next year or so and it's
according of course to that latest BOJ
reports. Bloom economics thinks that the
data suggests that exporters are
brushing off higher US tariffs. Uh our
economist Taro Kimura is with us right
now to help us unpack uh the latest tank
count survey what it means for the BOJ.
Uh yeah Taro just what what caught your
eye here among the many things that is
included in in this time cam report.
Um yeah there are many thing reported in
tank cam but all in all in a nutshell it
says economy is solid financial
condition is still accommodative and
it's telling that it's really safe for
the bank of Japan to pair stimulus just
if they are keen to do it just for 25
basis points. So um as you mentioned the
business sentiment very solid despite
elevated US tariffs and we see recovery
in auto sectors which is positive
because Japan was able to um lower the
auto sectoral tariff from 25 to 15% that
probably that was a positive factor as
well as um the the service sector also
uh stay uh at a very solid 34 and what's
more as you mentioned inflation
expectation gauges. I I think the BOJ is
watching it very closely because it's a
very important indicator for uh the
private uh inflation expectation and and
in there's a longer one the five years
for all businesses. They expect um they
they uh they expect a higher inflation
in in five years time it picked up 2.4%
from 2.3% well above BJ's 2% target
which is significant. Um capex figures
are um surprisingly strong as well. So
all in all I think um the B in a vacuum
it tells BOJ to hike in the next
meeting.
>> Um the we're thinking about JGB's Taro
um after this announcement from the BOJ
that they're going to be scaling back
their purchases of super long bonds.
Obviously they're trying to avoid some
of the volatility that we saw just a few
months ago. But how should we interpret
this move or we continue to see the
flattening of this of this GGB curve
now?
>> Right. Um so it underscores that the
bank of Japan of course there are many
uncertainties like US policies or market
jolts uh particularly for Japan super
long yields but um they keep the
postures that we we're going to uh
normalize uh through the excessive
monetary easing and we're going to be a
normal central bank. That's what's also
we were able to check back in the
September's meeting when they decided to
announce the selling of ETFs and Jerry
as well as um the uh with this
communication was also hawkish. So I
think um after some turmoil uh because
of the Trump tariff I think the BOJ has
recalibrated itself that you know they
see solid domestic market economy and
and and and keep going for its stimul
stimulus pairing and policy
normalization including the JGB uh
purchases.
>> Taro thank you Taro Kimura there our
Bloomberg economics economist talking
more about that Tonkan survey. Japanese
markets are continuing to see that
pressure here because of that steep
flattening of that yield curve. The
banks are really dragging the overall
benchmark lower. We're seeing the niki
and topics down more than 1% and
Japanese banks continue to see quite a
bit of selling pressure here this
morning. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. Um, Annabelle is
just joining us here to talk about this
Taiwan story and she just asked if I got
a haircut. I did just get a haircut last
week.
>> We can keep that off the airways. Dave,
>> your hair is always top of discussion
though, I have to say.
>> Well, it it brings up a lot
>> as much as bananas because I actually
found a banana peel that I thought he
disposed of earlier in the wardrobe
room. Sorry.
>> But so you you see a random banana peel
on the floor with you and you created
that connection. Anyway,
>> he did. He did. Yeah. Um, there are few
people not bananas. We are talking chips
and the certainly the big change
>> came through I think in the last 40
minutes or so. Uh chip related stocks
are coming through on your screens very
shortly. You have reports out of Taipei.
Uh reports saying that Taipei has
rejected a US request. Uh we talked
about this this time yesterday to make
or move half its semiconductor capacity
maybe to the US. For more on this we
talked about it. Annabelle is here with
us on set to help us understand the
context there and what exactly we
learned in the last hour or so.
>> Yes. So this is reporting from Taiwan
semi-official agency CNA. And so we know
that there's been a Taiwan contingency
in Washington over the past several days
really since last week, but it is
quoting Taiwan's Vice Premier Chungly
Chun who's just touched down in Taipei
in the last hour or so. And it seems
like she did a a media briefing
essentially with reporters on the ground
there. So what we got out of that was
essentially a response to as you said
that story we're discussing yesterday.
The US commerce secretary Howard Lutnik
went on NewsNation which is a cable news
network in the US to to make quite a
bold uh request really. The US is saying
they want half of their semiconductor
needs or their demand made locally in
the states and so they're really putting
that pressure on Taiwan and linking it
very much to Taiwan's national security
as well. their security of the island
essentially as a way that it can
essentially stave off any sort of
eventual uh invasion from China by force
if necessary. But the vice premier ch
has essentially rejected this idea
outright today and and said that this is
something that they never made a
commitment to to manufacture 50/50 chips
in Taiwan and the states. The issue
actually wasn't discussed this time. She
said in those trade talks and such
agreements or such conditions rather
would never be agreed to either. And it
was only yesterday we heard from the
premier, right, saying that they're
they're close to some sort of trade
deal.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, we sort of had a
little bit of optimism, I guess, going
into to the to the end of the day
yesterday essentially from the Taiwan
premier. Exactly. Chung Tai talking
about this saying that they've entered
these crucial closing stages and
essentially this is the whole point of
the Taiwan contingency heading to
Washington because they're facing uh
this 20% tariff that's been imposed by
the Trump administration. They certainly
want some concessions. They want a
little bit more clarity around what's
going to happen with semiconductors,
especially when you've got things like
Howard Lutnik is saying, but uh they
also looking at their peers in the
region, Japan and South Korea as well,
and looking at the treatment they're
getting. So, yes, that was sort of what
we heard, but certainly a very strong
push back this morning, even though uh
the the vice premier Chung did flag some
progress they've made in other areas.
>> All right, Bel, thank you. Annabelle
Driller is there uh with the latest when
it comes to Taiwan. Let's get to back to
our coverage of the Milkin Institute
Asia Summit in Singapore. Haz is
standing by with our next guest. Hey
Haz.
>> Hey Von. We've been talking about how
you know China's markets are redhot. But
when you take a look at the economy,
there signs of easing, right? We see
this uh in the export numbers and when
you take a look at the property sector,
they say still in a crisis despite the
fact that it started back in 2021. Let's
get insights perspective how it's all
shipping out. How do we secure that?
joining us. Gooden Gore, chairman,
managing principal and co-founder at
Gore Capital Partners. Goodin, good to
have you with us. Square this for us.
How is it looking when it comes to the
Chinese space? I mean, are you seeing an
evolution in the economy?
>> As Linda, thank you for having me. Um,
well, as we all know, China has been
correcting the real estate market for
quite some time to prevent a a allout
bubble. They have largely succeeded in
that but obviously that's actually not
putting any confidence in consumers head
which is why China's savings rate in the
banks consumer savings in the bank is
record high. So that means a lot of
unspent capital which the government
wants to unleash. So it's unlikely they
want to reflate the property sector like
they did because it took a lot of work
to uh deflate them to prevent an oil
correction. With that in mind, you have
seen the government actually
increasingly in China pushing the
investors or pushing investors on the
sideline or consumers to actually buy
stocks which is indirectly benefiting
China economy by saying hey stock is
good. It's a new wealth. It's a new
storage of wealth rather than just
purely relying on real estate
historically the Chinese mindset and
that's going to indirectly and directly
benefit Hong Kong in particular right
Hong Kong is a stock market for China to
the world the world to China one of the
three money market money center and
happens to be a tax haven together when
you clip that together I think Hong Kong
is in a pretty bright place China real
estate is still going to be tough
unlikely to see a lot of recovery
anytime soon but Hong Kong is probably
at a pretty interesting pivot
So, so this could trickle down to Hong
Kong's property sector. I mean, we've
seen the likes of Baba for instance,
right? The stocks have gone pretty much
gang busters. Is that translating to
perhaps Baba buying more space in Hong
Kong?
>> I think there's a trickle down, right?
Historically, we have always seen China
wanted to create some internal
competition with Shanghai and Hong Kong
fighting to be the financial hub of
China. It's now increasing increasingly
clear you talk to any of the animal
spirit entrepreneurs in China when they
want to list a company when it's ready
it's Hong Kong it's not London it's not
New York it's largely Hong Kong right
with that in mind it's it's benefiting
Hong Kong with the stock market being
more buoyant already when the S market
in Hong Kong is more buoyant Hong Kong
savers will feel better about money in
the pocket with the stock market that
almost always go back into the property
sector first in residential real estate
you have already seen the residential
financial sector in Hong Kong reaching
the bottom with volume stabilized and
going up, prices having to stabilize on
an uptick and the Alibaba
uh re Alibaba real estate purchase is a
good sign to say, hey, companies like
Alibaba and a few others that we know
are in line pretty soon to announce
something in Hong Kong market is where
they're planting a flag. And this is
probably not coincidental
with some kind of central government
backing to say Hong Kong is a place for
China to do business with the world and
the world to do business with China.
>> So is G capitalizing on that? We are
right. Couple months ago, we did a trade
where I thought with AI taking away jobs
potentially, but would
shareholders or large companies bosses
having more time on their hand, more
profits likely on companies using AI a
confluence of factors means more wealth
to the top, but that means it translates
to more time also. That means luxury
residential will be the first to first
to reflate in Hong Kong most likely. But
how do you play that? So, we actually
made a significant strategic investment
into CSI, a a medium-size luxury and
local developer to allow me us to go
back into the luxury residential sector
in a scale fashion. Right? That was the
first trade. I am very bullish actually
on Hong Kong over the next 12 to 18
months. I think a lot of the stories are
pointing a lot of the factors trends are
all pointing it for reflation or a
correction on the upside for a pivot I
would say. And I think a telltale sign
is how much traffic there has been in
Hong Kong last last last couple of
months now. We're almost always running
late for meetings.
>> So if you're optimistic about the next
12 to 18 months, how much money are you
willing to deploy? How much of the fund
how much of your fund are you willing to
deploy?
>> Oh, I I think we are still deploying our
Pan Asia Fund 7. I would say anything
that's earmarked for greater China or
probably earmarked for anything outside
of Japan are all going to be Hong Kong
because even for fun's point of view we
are seeing investors asking more and
more about China second largest economy
mostly because everyone is overinvested
in US or US dollar asset for that matter
they have to diversify and part of the
diversification have to look at China as
a second second largest economy in the
world and when you look at China and if
you a new investor going to China, Hong
Kong is going to be a much easier place
of entry and it happens to be at a
cyclical low at this point.
>> So it is a way to diversify but when you
take a look at risks is there further
argument that you should be pulling your
funds out of the US. I mean take a look
at what's happening today. We're looking
at a government shutdown. There's more
and more risk in investing your money in
the US.
>> US is still the innovation hub of the
world, right? Everything that's new,
generation changing, paradigm shift is
coming out of US. So you can't ignore
US, but you can no longer be solely
relying on US. The world is going
through a deglobalization phase,
regionalization phase, creating
opportunities whether is China plus one
strategy with Vietnam, Mexico, Turkey as
manufacturing hub to take some away from
China to AI creating more time for all
of us maybe more money in luxury any
places that has a high quality of life.
All of that is forcing all of us to
rethink how do we diversify
geographically against a backdrop of
geopolitical risk and it's just it's
just smart business to be able to think
about diversifying
>> and increasingly Asia looks attractive
and it's not just about Hong Kong or
China. It's also perhaps about Japan.
>> Absolutely. Japan has been on a tear and
with the reform starting to push through
a lot of the zombie stock market company
or activist investors pushing companies
to use the balance sheet more
efficiently is creating a lot of
opportunities for private equity and
indirectly real estate private equity
also. Do you see risks given that we
have um some uncertainty in the
political situation, some uncertainty in
the leadership in the country?
risk in where
>> in Japan
>> there is some risk but it's it's still a
very large economy dominated by Japanese
companies not necessarily
working for shareholders interest in
mind historically right they didn't have
to do it with the katu system or the
crossholding but that mindset is
changing so absolutely there are risk
but the risk are are tolerable or can be
calculated against the reward board
being such a large economy being so much
inefficiency that you can create that
means it's creating a lot of value and
opportunities. So that should more than
offset some of the political uncertainty
you have to deal with. If anything, some
of the political uncertainty or the risk
creates opportunities where when when uh
if everything is too rosy, it's going to
be too much capital chasing too few
deals.
>> In terms of how you're allocating your
funds, what's changed in the last 12
months? Have you made any shifts uh
dramatic shifts in in how you're
allocating your funds?
>> I think last couple years by say we have
been investing a lot more as a private
credit player, a structure credit than
as a equity investor because you get
almost the same reward for
being in a less risky piece of the
capital stack. Uh helping banks reduce
the the risk exposure so on so forth. I
think that's starting to shift in the
last three months in particular with
Japan. We feel we can be on the
offensive mode. We have had a few nice
exits and we have had actually a few
nice wins in terms of iconic assets that
we didn't think we could get. So that's
a good start. And Hong Kong in
particular, I think last three to six
months is becoming more clear to us that
I feel it's our home turf. It's a place
we understand and these signals means I
always say the best defense is actually
offense. This is the time that we have
to play offense again. Hong Kong is
probably the right spot to double down
and increase our presence in Hong Kong.
So that's
>> it is an inflection point right now.
Would you say
>> I feel it's absolutely inflection point.
I hope not everyone will agree because
otherwise there might be too much
competition to come.
>> Goodwin always a pleasure to have you
with us. Goodwin Gore, chairman,
managing principal and co-founder at
Gore Capital Partners. Dave, it is a
very noisy situation where we are
handing it back to you.
>> Yeah. Okay. Let let me save you from
from from the noise there. And of
course, we'll head back to Linda uh in a
moment there at a Milkin Institute Asia
Summit at 12:1 of course where we have a
lot of coverage coming through in the
next hour. It has a show and as you can
see on your screen some conversations
coming up at those times in the next
hour of Bloomberg television, right? Uh
plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
[Music]
In some corporate news this morning,
Nike has reported quarterly sales and
profit that beat expectations, but it
sales in greater China region remain
weak with the company facing what it
calls structural challenges there. The
CEO Elliot Hills says Nike is focused on
restructuring its offerings to focus on
specific sports in China. Fizer has
agreed to reduce the prices of some of
its drugs in the US by up to 85% under a
deal to win a three-year exemption from
pharmaceutical tariffs. The company says
it will ensure Americans receive prices
comparable to those offered in other
countries. The move addresses President
Trump's complaint the US unfairly
shoulders the highest medical costs in
the world. Exxon plans to cut about
2,000 jobs globally as it consolidates
smaller offices into regional hubs as
part of its long-term restructuring
plan. And CEO Darren Woods says the
reductions represent about 3 to 4% of
Exxon's global workforce and are part of
the company's ongoing efficiency drive.
And Marabeni plans to strengthen its
presence in Japan's power market by
establishing a new trading venture
called Marubeni Power Trading. Sources
say the company's power retail arm and
its UK-based energy trading unit,
Smartest Energy, will each hold a 50%
stake in the newly formed venture. The
joint venture will trade spot power and
futures as well as fuel futures
products.
>> Let's turn our attention now to Japan
and active investing. It's really the
topic of today's big take where you have
active investors on the rise in Japan uh
with Yoshiaki Morakami leading the
charge there. You have a look at the
data we've compiled here at Bloomberg.
Uh we've seen 146 campaigns. That's a
record. Uh that's a pick up from last
year in the last year. So that's twice
the number from four years back. Lisa
Doo, our Bloomberg finance and investing
reporter is here to take us through
what's going on and the trends we're
seeing there. Lisa, why don't we start
with Morakami? Why is Morakami so
influential?
>> As hi Dave. Of course, Hiaki Murakami is
a very well-known, very controversial
Japanese investor. Um, you know, kind of
has this reputation for very aggressive
tactics, very being very demanding of
companies that he invests in, but also
just how profitable his investments have
been. And he's Japanese, but he's now
based in Singapore. And Makami's
background was really that he started
his career as a Japanese government
bureaucrat. This is a job that really
only went to the most elite and the
smartest people. And then in the late
90s, early 2000s, he left that job to
start his own activist fund. And you
know, this is just, you know, taking
large stakes in companies, asking them
for more buybacks and issuing more
dividends, things that seem pretty
standard these days, but back then was
extremely controversial in a very
conservative corporate Japan. And he
became even more infamous because in
2006, he was arrested and charged with
insider trading. Some of these charges
overturned on appeal, but you know, he
took a break from investing and about 10
years ago picked it up again. and in the
last five years has really ratcheted up
his pace of Japan investments. He now
invests as a family office and um you
know they from our calculations they
have over $3 billion in holdings across
dozens of Japanese companies of course
so you know so wherever you know if
you're looking at Japan really Makami is
kind of unavoidable
>> unavoidable and and what a comeback as
you highlight there Lisa so what does
this you know success from Murakami
really signal about Japan now
I think there's been as the Japanese
market rallies come back a lot of
people's question how sustainable this
rally is and um and I think kind of
Murakami basically what he was rallying
for 20 years ago you know with kind of
having companies being more beholden to
shareholders paying more attention to
them that is now becoming more
mainstream in Japan and I think it shows
that some of these changes are probably
going to be stick are going to be more
sticky and maybe turn around for the
long term and again with Murakami one of
one part of his influence also been
because he's been around for so long.
Um, one analyst we spoke to called him
the grandfather of Japanese activives
investing. He's also had influence over
a lot of other activives investors. One
of the most famous ones being aimo. Um,
the two guys that started that fund
worked for him. They were really
influential in the buyout of Sheibba
about about a couple years ago. And
again also, you know, he now that he's
investing as a family office, he works
very closely with his daughter who's
also known for being also, you know,
just as aggressive and demanding as her
dad. And so even you know as as we go on
looking forward it's I think not even it
won't just be Makami himself but the
family itself will continue to be quite
influential in Japanese activist
investing going forward.
>> Lisa let's let's talk about his track
record. What is that like?
>> Yeah. So because they invest as a family
office it's really we don't have any
public filings any details on you know
how much money they've made. But one
calculation we have from CLSA uh is that
you know in the last four years when the
pace of investments in Japan really
ratcheted up they probably likely made
over a billion dollars in profits from
their holdings. Um and then you know
most famously one of the ones that he's
had is Fuji Media. uh you know this was
a company that was caught up in a um in
a scandal. one of one's announcers uh
you know was a was caught up in a sex
scandal and um and Murakami actually
went in and took a large stake in it and
um and you know I think usually for
companies that are caught up in scandal
you expect them the stock price to tank
but you know kind of in a sigh of his
influence and what people expect from
his presence when it comes to you know
stock holdings is that actually uh this
year so far the stock of Fuji media has
more than doubled as investors kind of
anticipate that something might happen
because of Murakami's presence in the
stock
>> yeah talk full circle there, Lisa. Thank
you. Our Bloomberg finance and investing
reporter, Lisa Doo, who is also joining
us from the Milkin Institute Asia Summit
in Singapore. We got plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg,
[Music]
right? Indian futures are doing
absolutely nothing. That's partially
what some economists think the RBA is
not going to do today.
>> Partially nothing.
>> Partially partially nothing. They might
go by 12 and a half.
>> Well, it's split, right? I mean, for the
most part,
>> 24 39 economists predict a whole, but
there's still a sizable chunk, 15 of
them that think that they could cut
because the case for a cut
>> seems to be building, right? When you
say inflation stays low, we're still at
the lower end of that range of their
target. uh you know the economy you know
might be hit by these higher tariffs uh
and yeah obviously with you know with
the Fed also cutting in September that
does open the window for them right now.
Yeah, the the case for an insurance cut
I think is is is how they're framing
that and it seems to be the timing
simply do they move now or do they move
at the next meeting and I think our
folks at Bloomberg economics have put it
out very very nicely right the window
was opened because the Fed uh then moved
and then the whole visa issue is also
while it is hard to measure the economic
impact of that uh it certainly will it's
certainly a net negative and not a net
positive for the economy so the case for
a cut is certainly uh one that our folks
at Bloomberg economics think is
certainly fairly clear-cut and perhaps
>> but the case for the hold too may you
have the the rupee is at record lows
right also um and the governor has been
quite dovish in fact cautious when it
comes to these rate cuts so you know how
high is that hurdle for for more easing
is certainly a big question but yes
according to be there is now that case
that is building for some easing there
as well so that's certainly one to watch
right I think the visa issue is going to
be quite easing interesting as It's not
just the 50% tariffs.
>> Yeah.
>> But really the impact it's going to have
on jobs, on the tech sector, and the
like is certainly going to be a key
thing to watch here in this meeting.
>> Well, certainly a lot of explaining to
do uh whatever the uh trajectory will be
on interest rates. If they don't move,
they'll explain why they didn't move. If
they did move, of course, what they mean
as far as guidance is concerned moving
uh moving forward. U just very quickly
before we wrap things up, a look at the
mining space in Australia with BHP of
course came out late yesterday. Asia
time this news on the big Chinese buyer
and our reporting here uh putting on ice
the purchases. I think what is still
eligible are uh cargos on the way are
cargo at the port priced in remmbb um as
you can see markets playing that the
opposite way as far as BHP rivals are
concerned. West gold and other gold
miners are also seeing some upside
today. This is really on the back of
gold prices and the output uh on the
gold space here. Yeah, look at West Gold
up 11% here right now and this is after
on the back of them raising their
guidance here when it comes to gold
production. So the outlook looking much
more positive still for gold. Uh
meanwhile gold, right, you talk about
where prices are. I think 3,800 is
certainly now that level that we're
watching. 3863.
There you go. Uh we're still seeing a
little bit of wobbles in the equity
market when it comes to US futures are
concerned given that we're just about a
little more than an hour away from that
government shutdown uh in the US as
well. Euro dollar is at 117. VIX is uh
slightly up. Not really. But certainly
one to watch there in the next hour or
so. But it doesn't seem like both sides
are willing to kind of find some sort of
offramp right now.
>> Yeah, we're cutting down to midnight as
we were many decades ago. It was
Cinderella then. It's a US shutdown now.
That's it from us here on the China
show. And we will see you all tomorrow.
[Music]